+++
date = "190913"
title = "RRMS - Conference Poster: Evaluation of JCV status, seroconversion rate and risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in Polish patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis"
draft = false
image = ""
showonlyimage = false
weight = -190913
+++

2019-09-13 / Conference ECTRIMS 2019

Kapica-Topczewska, K; Czarnowska, A; Collin, F;
Tarasiuk, J; Chorąży, M; Kwaśniewski, M; Kochanowicz, J;
Kułakowska, A
<!--more-->

<embed src="https://onlinelibrary.ectrims-congress.eu/pdfviewer/web/viewer.html?file=https%3A//onlinelibrary.ectrims-congress.eu/ectrims/download/poster%3Fcm_id%3D281844" width="100%" height="750"> 

### Abstract

**Background**

Presence of anti-JC-virus antibodies (JCVAb) is associated
with increased risk of natalizumab-related progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Less it is known about
seroconversion rate and time to seroconversion in
relapsisng-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients
treated with natalizumab.

**Goals**

The aim of the study was to assess JCVAb prevalence,
eroconversion rate, time to seroconversion and risk of PML in
RRMS patients treated with natalizumab in Poland.

**Methods**

Demographic and clinical data of all Polish RRMS patients
treated with natalizumab reimbursed by National Health Fund
(NFZ) were prospectively collected in electronic files using
the Therapeutic Program Monitoring System (SMPT) provided by
NFZ. The assessment of JCVAb presence (without collection of
JCVAb index value) in serum (Unilabs, STRATIFY JCV: anti-JCV
antibody ELISA) was done at the beginning of therapy and then
repeated every 6 months. The maximum follow-up time was 4
years. In Poland, since 2013, according to the NFZ drug
programme guidance only patients with negative JCVAb test have
been treated with natalizumab.

**Results**

In all Polish MS centres 362 patients have been treated with
natalizumab since 2013. 210 negative JCVAb patients with at
least 12 (±3) months of observation (149 female, 61 male; the
median age was 33 years) were included in the study. During
follow-up period JCVAb status changed from negative to
positive in 33 patients (15%). For half of the patients, the
seroconversion was diagnosed one 1 year after starting
natalizumab treatment. In 6 (2.9%) patients during follow-up
JCVAb status changed again from positive to negative. In
Poland, before establishment of NFZ drug programme, 4 cases of
PML in patients treated with natalizumab in clinical trial
STRATA (NCT00297232) were diagnosed. In the NFZ drug
programme, since 2013 no patient treated with natalizumab has
been diagnosed with PML.

**Conclusions**

Natalizumab therapy in JCV seronegative RRMS patients is very
safe and results in absence of PML cases. In Poland, JCV
seroconversion rate is similar to observed in other European
countries.

Shiny Applications programmed with R facilitate the
selection of scenario; e.g. compare a selection of patients
without relapses to patients who experienced relapse during
the first year of treatment.

