+++
date = "2020-03-02"
title = "T2D - Review Paper: Systematic Review of Polygenic Risk Scores for Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes"
draft = false
image = "img/portfolio/t2d_review.jpg"
showonlyimage = false
weight = -200302
+++

[`DOI:10.3390/ijms21051703`](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21051703)

2020-03-02
<!--more-->

## Authors

Padilla-Mart√≠nezi, F; **Collin, F**; Kwasniewski, M; Kretowski, A

[Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020, 21(5), 1703](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms21051703)

## Abstract

Recent studies have led to considerable advances in the identification of
genetic variants associated with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. An approach for
converting genetic data into a predictive measure of disease susceptibility is
to add the risk effects of loci into a polygenic risk score. In order to
summarize the recent findings, we conducted a systematic review of studies
comparing the accuracy of polygenic risk scores developed during the last two
decades. We selected 15 risk scores from three databases (Scopus, Web of Science
and PubMed) enrolled in this systematic review. We identified three polygenic
risk scores that discriminate between type 1 diabetes patients and healthy
people, one that discriminate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes, two that
discriminate between type 1 and monogenic diabetes and nine polygenic risk
scores that discriminate between type 2 diabetes patients and healthy people.
Prediction accuracy of polygenic risk scores was assessed by comparing the area
under the curve. The actual benefits, potential obstacles and possible solutions
for the implementation of polygenic risk scores in clinical practice were also
discussed. Develop strategies to establish the clinical validity of polygenic
risk scores by creating a framework for the interpretation of findings and their
translation into actual evidence, are the way to demonstrate their utility in
medical practice.

#### Credits

Image by <a href="https://pixabay.com/users/ksyfffka07-10596932/?utm_source=link-attribution&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=image&amp;utm_content=4203785">ksyfffka07</a> from <a href="https://pixabay.com/?utm_source=link-attribution&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=image&amp;utm_content=4203785">Pixabay</a>
