---
date: 2021-02-21
title: |
  Crops - Research Paper: Towards a global characterization of winter wheat
  cultivars behavior in response to stressful environments during grain-filling
draft: false
image: img/portfolio/tol_quant.jpg
showonlyimage: false
weight: -211201
---

[`DOI:10.1016/j.eja.2021.126421`](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eja.2021.126421)

2021-12-01
<!--more-->

## Authors

Bancal, MO; Collin, F; Gate, P; Gouache, D; Bancal, P

[European Journal of Agronomy, 133](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eja.2021.126421)


## Highlights

- A multi way characterization of cultivar response to foliar diseases is
  proposed.
- No trade-off between tolerance and productivity or disease susceptibility was
  observed.
- Alternative characterization by remote sensing rather than sampling is
  considered.

## Abstract

Starting from grain yield, quality and resistance against multiple diseases, the
characterization of the cultivar’s behavior increased in recent decades. Needs
in quantitative assessments of a larger range of criteria has greatly evolved
towards yield stability in a large range of fluctuating environments. Using a
large dataset crossing cultivars and environments, we thus explored the
relationships between yield and Healthy Area Duration (HAD), as affected by
genotype, environment and septoria caused by Zygmoseptoria tritici. A set of
indexes was then proposed to properly profile cultivar’s behavior. A curvilinear
relationship relating HAD to potential yield was first parameterized. It allows
quantifying HAD efficiency. Susceptibility (HAD loss) was differentiated from
total tolerance (the ratio between yield loss and HAD loss). Finally the
specific tolerance, i.e. not due to HAD level, was quantified. Correlations
between indexes pointed out that no trade-off was shown between total tolerance
and actual or potential yield as well as disease susceptibility. These
correlations partially depended on the nitrogen status of crops, underlining
other G×E interactions indexes may trap. Finally, as HAD efficiency appeared
more highly linked to actual yield than potential yield we proposed an
alternative set on indexes based on Healthy Area Absorption (HAA) that accounted
for meteorological variability. Interestingly, these last indexes were
insensitive to nitrogen nutrition as well as to cultivar susceptibility to Z.
tritici. The developed indexes allowed profiling the cultivars’ behavior under a
common range of environments. HAA-based indexes open the way to a useful global
characterization of cultivars by breeders. Moreover, HAA can be assessed using
high-throughput phenotyping tools. A thorough evaluation of this last point
needs to be done.

#### Credits

Image by <a href="https://pixabay.com/users/hans-2/?utm_source=link-attribution&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=image&amp;utm_content=8743">Hans Braxmeier</a> from <a href="https://pixabay.com/?utm_source=link-attribution&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=image&amp;utm_content=8743">Pixabay</a>

